# Day4, January 9th, Thursday

## Servers and Node

### What is a server?

Purpose: File access, Centralization, Security, ...

### How do requests reach the server?

#### Processes & Ports

A server is binded to a **port** on a computer.

In url: `protocol://domain:port`

(We don't need to specify ports on websites)

Examples:

- HTTPS - 443
- HTTP - 80
- Minecraft - 25565

#### How to use our own computer as a server?

What it means:

It means our computer will **listen for request** and **respond** to them.

A special domain: `localhost`

e.g.: `http://localhost:3000` port=3000

### How to write a server?

The tool we'll use:

- framework: `express.js`
- run js code: `node.js`

Why we need `node.js` when writing server code:

- Client is usually a browser. It knows how to handle js code.
- But server is only a computer who dosen't know what is javascript

#### We already used `node` in `npm`

`npm` is Node Package Manager.

`npm install`:

- check `package.json` and install all necessory packages with correct version,
- and put them into a directory called `node_modules`

and `npm run dev`

#### Example

Create an API endpoint:

```js
const app = express(); // create a new express server

app.get("api/text", (req, res) => {
  res.send({ message: "API???" });
});
```

`.get()` takes two arguments:

- Route address
- Callback function, which also takes two arguments:
  - req: incoming request
  - res: server's respond

(`res.send` is similar to a return statement)

#### Middleware

Request -> Middleware Stack (lots of middlewares) -> Response

Example:

request -> [log the request -> checked whether logged in -> handle error] -> respond

- How to add a middleware?

```js
// General middle work
app.use((req, res, next) => {
  console.log("Time:", Date.now());
  next();
});

// Error middle work, takes 4 arguments
app.use((err, req, res, next) => {
  // Handle error
});
```

#### "Catch All" Endpoints

catch all: `app.get("*")`.

purpose: catch all not-defined endpoints.

example:

```js
app.get("*", (req, res) => {
  res.status(404).send({ message: "Not Found!" });
});
```

Note that we should write `.get("*")` at last, and more specific endpoints before it.
